The Israel
Defense Forces say
it is seeing a significant escalation
on the border with
Lebanon and has been striking back
after some 20 rockets
or so were fired toward Israel.
Today, the Iran backed militant group
Hezbollah says it also attacked
five Israeli military post.
A spokesperson for the IDF
says that tells CNN
that Hezbollah is trying to drag Lebanon
into the conflict,
certainly something people in the region
have been worried about.
CNN's Ben Wedeman is in southern Lebanon
for CNN. Right now.
Ben, what have you been seeing as there
is this concern
that if Israel does, if
and when embark on this ground invasion,
that the fighting could increase
and then Lebanon
could get pulled into this war
Now, Caitlin,
we're hearing a lot of this
cross-border fire
today wasn't just Hezbollah.
There was
focusing mainly on Israeli
military positions
along the border,
but also the military
wing of Hamas got involved
and they claimed to have fired
30 rockets into the upper Galilee region.
But it's important to keep in
mind that
even though certainly
we are seeing more cross-border
fire on this in this area, than perhaps
2006 during that war back then.
But Hezbollah is being very careful
to keep it
within certain limits
to avoid a full scale war.
It seems to be wanting to show
that it is supporting Hamas by doing some
action here without going all the way.
Keep in mind
that this just a few months ago,
the Israeli defense minister said that
if Hezbollah decides
to launch a war on Israel, Israel will
bomb Lebanon back into the Stone Age.
So there is a certain hesitance
and certainly in this area where we are.
There is nervousness
about the possibility
of a full scale war.
We spoke with a shopkeeper here
who told us that
he has his bags packed in his car
ready to go in the event that things
go really south.
So there is nervousness.
But at the moment,
I think
a certain level of violence without going
too far is being maintained here.
Caitlin.
Yeah.
And that's really interesting
given the idea that I mean,
if you see these strikes
going back and forth,
something you say
we haven't seen in 20 years.
And I should note
we're hearing
a little bit of activity here right now
in Tel Aviv. We'll be monitoring that.
But but you're saying
what Hezbollah is doing
is maybe a little bit, but not enough
to provoke Israel.
And that is not the sense
of what's
actually happening on the ground,
what their decision making is
Yes.
I mean,
they are doing
I mean, what we're seeing really in terms
of Hezbollah's
capabilities
is really just the tip of the iceberg.
These are very localized attacks.
They're not lobbing missiles into that
in the direction of large
Israeli population centers.
We're getting
Hezbollah is putting out
videos every day.
They're
they seem to be focusing
on communications,
surveillance and observation equipment.
On the Israeli side, occasionally
hitting tanks and troops as well.
But it's really very military
in its focus,
not what we're seeing,
for instance, in coming out of Gaza.
This is very specific
Caitlin.
Yeah.
And clearly the best,
though, seems worried
that it could go from the state
of where it is right now
to something bigger
because this warning
came out from the State Department
telling Americans who are in Lebanon
leave the country as soon as possible.
They're worried
there may not be commercial options
to do so.
As soon or in the near stage, I guess.
I mean, have you sensed a change
in how people feel?
Are they going about everyday life
or do you think
do you sense something different
since you've been on the ground
Well, certainly in this area
along the border, there is nervousness.
Some people have already left.
Others have left and come back
because
they can't afford
to hang out in hotels in Beirut.
But certainly in general,
if you're talking about Lebanon,
there is nervousness.
And it's not just the US government,
the UK Germany, Australia, Saudi Arabia
and others
have told their nationals in Lebanon
that it's a good time to leave
now while they're still flights
keep in mind
that in 2006
at the beginning of the war
between Hezbollah
and Israel,
one of the first things Israel struck
was the airport in Beirut.
It's also important
to keep in mind that when we're talking
about nationals
of the US,
Australia, U.K., Germany, Canada
and whatnot,
there are
hundreds of thousands of Lebanese
who have dual passports.
So it's not just tourists
who are here or businessmen.
There are a lot of Lebanese
who hold these passports as well.
And in 2006, all of these countries
had to send ships
to take their nationals out
And so we're talking about
not just a few thousand,
we are talking about
hundreds of thousands of people
who in theory should leave.
But many of them are obviously connected
to their land, to their homeland,
and won't be leaving.
But we're not talking about a small
number of people. Caitlin.
Yeah.
A difficult decision for a region that is
certainly on edge.